README.adoc, before:

= ngx-oauth
Jakub Jirutka <https://github.com/jirutka[@jirutka]>
:source-language: sh
:gh-name: jirutka/ngx-oauth
:gh-branch: master
:gh-url: https://github.com
:rocks-url: https://luarocks.org/modules
:rfc6749: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749
:rfc6265: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265
:ngx-http-core-doc: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html

ifdef::env-github[]
image:https://travis-ci.org/{gh-name}.svg?branch={gh-branch}["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/{gh-name}"]
image:https://coveralls.io/repos/{gh-name}/badge.svg?branch={gh-branch}&service=github["Coverage Status", link="https://coveralls.io/github/{gh-name}?branch={gh-branch}"]
endif::env-github[]

TBD


== Requirements

* http://nginx.org[nginx] with compiled https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module[Lua module]
* http://luajit.org[LuaJIT] 2.0+, or http://www.lua.org[Lua] 5.1+
* lua-cjson [{gh-url}/mpx/lua-cjson[source]] [{rocks-url}/luarocks/lua-cjson[LuaRocks]], or luajson [{gh-url}/harningt/luajson[source]] [{rocks-url}/harningt/luajson[LuaRocks]]
* luaossl [{gh-url}/wahern/luaossl[source]] [{rocks-url}/daurnimator/luaossl[LuaRocks]]


== Configuration variables

$oauth_aes_bits::
  Selects the AES key length (in bits) for encrypting a refresh token stored in a cookie.
  The supported values are: `128`, `192`, and `256`.
  The default value is `128`.

$oauth_authorization_url::
  URL of the {rfc6749}#section-3.1[authorization endpoint] provided by the authorization server.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_server_url` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_server_url}/authorize`.

$oauth_client_id::
  The {rfc6749}#section-2.2[client identifier] registered on the authorization server.
  This variable is *required.*

$oauth_client_secret::
  The {rfc6749}#section-2.3.1[client secret] (password).
  First _n_-bytes of this value, where _n_ equals `$oauth_aes_bits / 8`, is also used as a key for encrypting a refresh token stored in a cookie.
  This _n_ also defines the lower limit of the secret length.
  However, even if you use the default key length 128 bits, the client secret should be much longer (e.g. 32 characters).
  This variable is *required.*

$oauth_cookie_path::
  Specifies the {rfc6265}#section-4.1.2.4[Path attribute] for the cookies.
  The default value is `/`.

$oauth_cookie_prefix::
  The string to be used as a prefix for `access_token`, `refresh_token` and `username` cookies.
  The default value is `oauth_`.

$oauth_max_age::
  Specifies the {rfc6749}#section-4.1.2.2[Max-Age attribute] for the refresh_token cookie and the username cookie, in seconds.
  The Max-Age of the access_token cookie is determined as a minimum of this value and token’s `expires_in` attribute.
  The default value is `2592000` (30 days).

$oauth_redirect_location::
  TODO

$oauth_redirect_uri::
  The _client’s_ {rfc6749}#section-3.1.2[redirection endpoint] previously registered on the authorization server.
  It must be an absolute URI that is accessible from the authorization server and routed to this module.
  You don’t need to change this variable, unless your nginx instance is behind some other HTTP proxy.
  The default value is `${scheme}://${server_name}${oauth_redirect_location}`, where variables {ngx-http-core-doc}#var_scheme[`$scheme`] and {ngx-http-core-doc}#var_server_name[`$server_name`] are set by nginx.

$oauth_scope::
  A space delimited set of OAuth scopes that should be requested.
  The default value is empty, i.e. all scopes allowed for the client will be requested.

$oauth_server_url::
  Base URI of the OAuth 2.0 authorization server.
  This variable is *required*, unless you set `$oauth_authorization_url`, `$oauth_token_url` and `$oauth_userinfo_url`.

$oauth_success_uri::
  Absolute or relative URI to which a browser should be redirected after successful authorization.
  The default value is `/`.

$oauth_token_url::
  URL of the {rfc6749}#section-3.2[token endpoint] provided by the authorization server.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_server_url` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_server_url}/token`.

$oauth_userinfo_url::
  URL of the userinfo endpoint.
  This may be any GET resource secured by OAuth 2.0 that returns JSON with username (in the attribute `username`) of the user that has authorized the access token.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_server_url` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_server_url}/userinfo`.


== Setup development environment

. Clone this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/jirutka/ngx-oauth.git
    cd ngx-oauth

. Source file `.envrc` into your shell (or manually add `$(pwd)/.env/bin` to your `PATH`):

    source .envrc

. Install LuaJIT and modules for development into directory `.env`:

    ./script/bootstrap

. Run tests with code coverage and linter:

    ./script/test


== License

This project is licensed under http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT/[MIT License].
For the full text of the license, see the link:LICENSE[LICENSE] file.

Commit message:

Rename $oauth_server_url to $oauth_oaas_uri

README.adoc, after:

= ngx-oauth
Jakub Jirutka <https://github.com/jirutka[@jirutka]>
:source-language: sh
:gh-name: jirutka/ngx-oauth
:gh-branch: master
:gh-url: https://github.com
:rocks-url: https://luarocks.org/modules
:rfc6749: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749
:rfc6265: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265
:ngx-http-core-doc: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html

ifdef::env-github[]
image:https://travis-ci.org/{gh-name}.svg?branch={gh-branch}["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/{gh-name}"]
image:https://coveralls.io/repos/{gh-name}/badge.svg?branch={gh-branch}&service=github["Coverage Status", link="https://coveralls.io/github/{gh-name}?branch={gh-branch}"]
endif::env-github[]

TBD


== Requirements

* http://nginx.org[nginx] with compiled https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module[Lua module]
* http://luajit.org[LuaJIT] 2.0+, or http://www.lua.org[Lua] 5.1+
* lua-cjson [{gh-url}/mpx/lua-cjson[source]] [{rocks-url}/luarocks/lua-cjson[LuaRocks]], or luajson [{gh-url}/harningt/luajson[source]] [{rocks-url}/harningt/luajson[LuaRocks]]
* luaossl [{gh-url}/wahern/luaossl[source]] [{rocks-url}/daurnimator/luaossl[LuaRocks]]


== Configuration variables

$oauth_aes_bits::
  Selects the AES key length (in bits) for encrypting a refresh token stored in a cookie.
  The supported values are: `128`, `192`, and `256`.
  The default value is `128`.

$oauth_authorization_url::
  URL of the {rfc6749}#section-3.1[authorization endpoint] provided by the authorization server.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_oaas_uri` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_oaas_uri}/authorize`.

$oauth_client_id::
  The {rfc6749}#section-2.2[client identifier] registered on the authorization server.
  This variable is *required.*

$oauth_client_secret::
  The {rfc6749}#section-2.3.1[client secret] (password).
  First _n_-bytes of this value, where _n_ equals `$oauth_aes_bits / 8`, is also used as a key for encrypting a refresh token stored in a cookie.
  This _n_ also defines the lower limit of the secret length.
  However, even if you use the default key length 128 bits, the client secret should be much longer (e.g. 32 characters).
  This variable is *required.*

$oauth_cookie_path::
  Specifies the {rfc6265}#section-4.1.2.4[Path attribute] for the cookies.
  The default value is `/`.

$oauth_cookie_prefix::
  The string to be used as a prefix for `access_token`, `refresh_token` and `username` cookies.
  The default value is `oauth_`.

$oauth_max_age::
  Specifies the {rfc6749}#section-4.1.2.2[Max-Age attribute] for the refresh_token cookie and the username cookie, in seconds.
  The Max-Age of the access_token cookie is determined as a minimum of this value and token’s `expires_in` attribute.
  The default value is `2592000` (30 days).

$oauth_oaas_uri::
  Base URI of the OAuth 2.0 authorization server.
  This variable is *required*, unless you set `$oauth_authorization_url`, `$oauth_token_url` and `$oauth_userinfo_url`.

$oauth_redirect_location::
  TODO

$oauth_redirect_uri::
  The _client’s_ {rfc6749}#section-3.1.2[redirection endpoint] previously registered on the authorization server.
  It must be an absolute URI that is accessible from the authorization server and routed to this module.
  You don’t need to change this variable, unless your nginx instance is behind some other HTTP proxy.
  The default value is `${scheme}://${server_name}${oauth_redirect_location}`, where variables {ngx-http-core-doc}#var_scheme[`$scheme`] and {ngx-http-core-doc}#var_server_name[`$server_name`] are set by nginx.

$oauth_scope::
  A space delimited set of OAuth scopes that should be requested.
  The default value is empty, i.e. all scopes allowed for the client will be requested.

$oauth_success_uri::
  Absolute or relative URI to which a browser should be redirected after successful authorization.
  The default value is `/`.

$oauth_token_url::
  URL of the {rfc6749}#section-3.2[token endpoint] provided by the authorization server.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_oaas_uri` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_oaas_uri}/token`.

$oauth_userinfo_url::
  URL of the userinfo endpoint.
  This may be any GET resource secured by OAuth 2.0 that returns JSON with username (in the attribute `username`) of the user that has authorized the access token.
  This variable is required if `$oauth_oaas_uri` is not set; otherwise it defaults to `${oauth_oaas_uri}/userinfo`.


== Setup development environment

. Clone this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/jirutka/ngx-oauth.git
    cd ngx-oauth

. Source file `.envrc` into your shell (or manually add `$(pwd)/.env/bin` to your `PATH`):

    source .envrc

. Install LuaJIT and modules for development into directory `.env`:

    ./script/bootstrap

. Run tests with code coverage and linter:

    ./script/test


== License

This project is licensed under http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT/[MIT License].
For the full text of the license, see the link:LICENSE[LICENSE] file.
